## What is a generator in Python?

A generator in Python is a function that returns an iterator object that can be used to generate a sequence of values. Unlike a normal function, which returns a single value and then terminates, a generator function can pause its execution at any point and later resume from where it left off. This allows it to generate a sequence of values on-the-fly, without needing to store all the values in memory at once. A generator object is an iterator.

A generator function is defined using the yield keyword instead of return. When the generator is called, it returns a generator object, which can be used to iterate over the sequence of values generated by the function. Each time the yield keyword is encountered in the generator function, the value of the expression following the keyword is returned to the caller, and the state of the generator function is saved so that it can be resumed later.
```python
def count_up_to(n):
    i = 1
    while i <= n:
        yield i
        i += 1
>>> gen = count_up_to(5)
>>> for i in gen:
...     print(i)
1
2
3
4
5
```

## What is generator expressions?

A generator expression is an expression that returns a generator object.
```python
for square in squares(5):
    print(square)
0
1
4
9
16
```
**Generator expressions vs list comprehensions**

The following shows how to use the list comprehension to generate square numbers from 0 to 4:
```python
square_list = [n** 2 for n in range(5)]
```
And this defines a square number generator:
```python
square_generator = (n** 2 for n in range(5))
```
1) Syntax

    In terms of syntax, a generator expression uses parentheses () while a list comprehension uses the square brackets [].

2) Memory utilization

    A list comprehension returns a list while a generator expression returns a generator object.

    It means that a list comprehension returns a complete list of elements upfront. However, a generator expression returns a list of elements, one at a time, based on request.

    A list comprehension is eager while a generator expression is lazy.

    In other words, a list comprehension creates all elements right away and loads all of them into the memory.

    Conversely, a generator expression creates a single element based on request. It loads only one single element to the memory.

3) Iterable vs iterator

    A list comprehension returns an iterable. It means that you can iterate over the result of a list comprehension again and again.

    However, a generator expression returns an iterator, specifically a lazy iterator. It becomes exhausting when you complete iterating over it.  
